---
layout: post
title:  "Round 33: NULL adhesive heresy"
date:   2016-06-7 06:30:00
status: notext
---

ED NOTE: Text copied directly from Google DOC


What We Learned at PyCon by Jessica Garson
Twitter - jessicagarson
A zine made at the zine making workshop I led at PyCon. 
Jess made another zine (self-published magazine)! She made a zine IN ONE HOUR at a zine-making workshop at PyCon!
Embracing the punk culture! Jess played a punk show with the guy who founded the NYC Hack and Tell too!
Portland has an used art supply shop near the convention center where PyCon was, of course.
Zines in the Python community! 
Favorite talks in the zine: http://bit.ly/PyConYouTube
If she had more time she'd add things like demystifying jargon, etc.
Make zines with Jess!

Heap Spray or JIT Spray by Dan Fujita @danfujita
Heap spray exploit using Javascript
Heap spray can address space layout randomization
Uses Windows XP IE 6/7 
Adds a fraudulent windows Admin user 
If the victim accidentally loads the shellcode
Javascript will try to convert the shellcode to unicode, so 
Uses a lot of NOP Sleds interspersed with the shellcode

Triggers a buffer overflow in a vulnerable DLL file
Was able to run his Javascript code on his own computer with the vulnerable DLL to add a fake admin account
Next up: using JIT Spray to avoid Data Execution Prevention
Heap Spray or JIT Spray for Windows 10
Trivial to perform any remote code execution

Is Metro on Fire by Nick Stocchero
Twitter - Nick123pig
Ismetroonfire.com
The name says it all!
Updated by an Amazon AWS Lambda process -- checks everyone that the Is Metro on Fire twitter follows to see whether anyone is mentioning Metro being on fire, or smoke -- if so, it will update the /fireapi to say that Metro is on fire

It's written in JavaScript.  There's a Twitter Node.js library and a S3 library.

Source is on GitHub: https://github.com/nick123pig/ismetroonfire

JSON data: https://ismetroonfire.com/fireapi
Featured on FiveThirtyEight! (http://fivethirtyeight.com/features/washington-d-c-s-metro-catches-fire-more-than-four-times-a-week/)
People ask me: Should I ride the metro this morning? I'm like, I don't know it's a joke!
It's just a joke website!
The metro sometimes misspells fire. 

Next Up: Getting a real api soon


Tabs vs. Spaces: Data from the Holy War (mining source code for the answer) by Chris Nguyen
Twitter - uncompiled: https://twitter.com/uncompiled
Last week's episode of Silicon Valley was all about Tabs vs. Spaces
So Chris went through the top 100 starred repos for each language on GitHub, then parsed the files to figure out what do people actually use?

Output is on firebase
Javascript: 87% of JS repos use spaces!
Java: 86% of Java repos use spaces! While there's no standard, Google has a style guide
Ruby: 100% use spaces! Hooray for consistency! (Two spaces is idiomatic)
PHP: 78% use spaces, 15% use tabs, 7% use ... something else.
Python: 93% use spaces because of PEP 8
Go: 99% use tabs; 1 repo uses spaces

In conclusion: most people use spaces!

Data is available on Firebase:
https://tabs-vs-spaces.firebaseio.com/(language).json
Example: https://tabs-vs-spaces.firebaseio.com/ruby.json

Personal choice: 4 spaces

App simulating rent stabilization laws by Harlan Harris
Twitter - HarlanH
https://medium.com/@HarlanH/simulating-rent-stabilization-policy-at-the-national-day-of-civic-hacking-4f44b808387c#.q4dwj4njd
Little app built for the National Day of Civic Hacking, on simulating rent stabilization laws. Some interesting meta issues on the value of hacking and hackathon projects. 

About half of apartments in DC are rent-stabilized.
For many apartments built before 1970 with more than 4 units (minus exceptions), there are rules that govern how much your rent can increase year to year.

Assuming a spherical cow, Harlan created a visualization that shows the distribution of outcomes for a variety of simulated apartments.
 
Lots of sliders to play with that adjust the variables -- and it really highlights how adjusting things like the housing stock is really important to the prices.

Check out his visualization here:
https://harlanh.shinyapps.io/rent-stabilization-policy-viz/

What are you trying to do at a Hackathon? Are you trying to create a real-world solution or are you trying to create something that can be interesting and let you look at the world in a different way?  This is a model that gives you intuitions! It's not a perfect world, but this is a great approximation!

Created in 4 hours using shinyapps.io!

A linear program to solve Sudoku games by Anna Petrone
 Twitter - 1littlevictory
 GitHub.com/ampetr/sudoku
Anna had a traumatic experience with Sudoku early on in school, so she didn't even play it until last week!
Sudoku is where you have 1-9 in all of the columns and 1-9 in all of the rows

Linear programming defines linear constraints with variables to create a feasible region.
If your feasible region is a convex shape, your optimal solution will be at one of the vertices
Binary decision variables for each number and each box in the puzzle
She wrote a system of linear equations using these variables that describe mathematically the solution to the puzzle
Coded in CPLEX (an IBM optimization package) 
There is no objective function -- any feasible solution will do the trick (this is called a constraint programming problem)

Finds solutions for 9x9, 16x16, and 25x25 grids in a few seconds!
But it couldn't solve a 64x64 grid after an hour!

Future questions and thoughts:
What is the minimum number of initial cells you must pre-specify in order for the solution to be unique?
How do you quantify difficulty?
Can you judge the difficulty based on the number of cells pre-filled


Visualizing sound/music with the web audio API and Paper.js by Sarah Frostenson and Aurora Nou
Twitter - sfrostenson and auroranou
Soon it will be live on danceparty.pizza!
WebAudio API and an d SVG framework called Paper.js
WebAudio API creates an Audio Context -- you can stream audio, analyze it, and manipulate it
Paper.Js is super cool! (paperjs.org/examples)
If we can get frequency data out of an audio file, could we create an animation of frequencies over time
Right now a default MP3 is uploaded, but there's an option to upload your own MP3 file!
It creates an animation of your MP3's frequency!
Written in Backbone.  First you get the file with JQuery then you use an analyzer node to get the frequency data
Loops through the frequencies and create the animations

Maybe later: an animated gif you can download of the full thing!

It's open source too, hooray!: https://github.com/sfrostenson/dance-party-pizza


Angry nerds art project by Eddie Nerdphy
https://www.instagram.com/angrynerdz/?hl=en
GED Math teacher by day, Angrynerdz
The Angrynerdz: How the free arts movement changed my life
It all started with his first art piece, a nerd face on the Lord Baltimore flag
The Free Arts movement: you create art to leave behind for other people to take
His very first piece: He put it in the Jim Henson statue at UMD and a woman found it who took it as a sign that
Made over 200 art pieces, people finding it
Created an arts piece for the Childrens Hospital: Feel Better Bears

Look for his drops at https://www.instagram.com/angrynerdz/
Some fun nerd puns: Jamie Lee Nerdist, The Nerdinator, Friday the Nerdteenth, Spread the nerd, Nerdstradamus

Deep learning spelling bot, silly words and phonetic representations by Travis Hoppe
Twitter - metasemantic
Deep dive into deep learning!
Recurrent neural networks are great for language modeling!
What's the next letter in: THE CAT IN THE HA
Instead of real language, Travis fed words out of sentence order.
Coded in tensorflow

Started with Wikipedia as a database, but there are too many crazy words.

Used his RNN to create some seven letter words, and was able to also use the network to score the words based on how "real" the compute thought they were.

Created his own "Lorem Ipsum" but with fake words, looks pretty realistic!

Used the neural network weights to cluster words together-- they end up clustering naturally based on spelling patterns.

