---
layout: post
title:  "Round 54: Parsed Thyme"
date:   2018-03-13 06:30:00
status: notext
---

ED NOTE: This is just copied from the hackpad, it needs cleaning up.

# Rick
Over time, things wear out. His two elbows need a bit of physical therapy.

When starting physical therapy, the "Tyler Twist" is a good exercise for addressing tennis elbow. But it requires at least one good elbow and a decent shoulder, and Rick's shoulder was in bad shape. How to do physical therapy to address tennis elbow if both of your arms/elbows are out of commission [without waiting until one gets good enough]?

So he built a prototype assistive device to help him, like a old-fashioned sewing machine that uses a treadle to "load" the device, connected to a c-clamp.

Biggest problem: how to affix the rubbery, physical therapy twist band? You can't drill it.

Four ninety-degree clamps screwed to the bobbin, and a hose clamp to secure.

Check out a picture of the machine: https://twitter.com/DCHackAndTell/status/973695105889599490 
Action video! https://photos.app.goo.gl/Aif96aaoRPDF6UF73

# Chris Nguyen @uncompiled
Escape from Prayer Castle

Chris made a game highlighting the absurdity of the predictable "thoughts and prayers" response to gun violence in schools.

Wolfenstein 3D was open sourced, so Chris forked it to create a new game: https://thoughtsandprayers.wtf/ 

Instead of weapons, you have your prayer hands.

The game uses sprite sheets, so he replaced some icons with things like prayer hands and the Bible.

When you run out of prayers, all you have left is your Bible. (The only way to beat the game is to memorize the map and run as fast as you can. Your prayers aren't actually effective.)

Deployed with the Wolf3D js engine

# Grant Nelson @grantimus9
Stripe Vulnerability

Grant hacked Stripe, a payment processor that handles PCI compliance so you don't need to.

If Stripe has already seen your email address, it asks for a two-factor authentication code, and the verification API would produce an error when the email address was associated with a phone number. Enabled an email -> phone number translator for Stripe accounts.

Stripe paid $1500 for responsible bug notification via bug bounty.

# Grant Harper @grant_emersn
App to index paper copies of your recipes by ingredient and title

You've got a fridge full of ingredients; how to convert that into a delicious plate of food?
Some people use recipe books to fix this.
How do you know what's in those recipe books though?

Here's how:

Grant built a service that would let him index recipe books, and put it into Alexa as well.

It uses a lot of Amazon Web Services:
	Route 53 for 
	Elastic Beanstalk for EC2 and Auto-scaling; RDS for database;
	Lambda for Node.js
	And of course: Alexa!

(Login required)
https://recipes.theaudiochef.com

Put your ingredients and recipes into the system (by hand, for now, but adding OCR could help this) 

“Alexa, ask recipes to find walnuts”

	Found "Parsed Thyme" on page 100, the recipe we added during the live demo

What's next? Experimenting with Optical Character Recognition (OCR), add Elasticsearch to query recipes once they're ingested by OCR
Adam Specker & Michael
Hoth or Not: http://hoth-or-not.herokuapp.com/
Source: https://github.com/aspecker/Hoth-or-not

# Adam and Michael created an app for their school project.

Attractiveness-rating app riffing off the old "Hot or Not" website.

An important lesson: users didn't know what the ratings were (Mustafar is hot, hoth is not)

Someone found a vulnerability and stuffed the ballot box in favor of Jar Jar Binks.

Uses Firebase for the back-end database & updates live.

# Nathan Epstein @Aeium
A mouse toy! https://aeium.github.io/spiralToy/?x1=402&y1=287&x2=405&y2=285

Nathan was making mouse toys and playing around in Javascript to create spirograph-like patterns on the page. 

links to pages from my presentation per request

First version:
https://aeium.github.io/spiralToy/

Waypoint path version:
https://aeium.github.io/spiralCommander/

How do you measure the geometric complexity? A rough way to do this is with PNG file size.

Source code for version 1 and image:
https://github.com/Aeium/spiralToy

Version 2 example:


Next idea: take the Javascript animation frame and export it to a gif.

Could be neat: have bots compete to create the most complex picture [as measured by post-compression file size]

# Aaron Schumacher @planarrowspace
Texata it's the big data analytics showdown. You do contests and win!

The GDELT data set: a big scraping of all world events. Like 100 GB! (even bigger, but Texata used some subset)

Map() Reduce() is a great way to break big data into manageable chunks.

Hadoop, Spark, but no, multicore! EC2 has 96 core machines?! But Aaron only used like 32 or 64 core machines. They're pretty expensive, costing between $4 and $20 per hour. Not something you'd want to forget you had on, but doable for a four-hour contest.
Manager is responsible for running Map-reduce
Uses subprocess to avoid the global interpreter lock (and get a new core)
Runner runs individual jobs (with execfile!)

Took 1-3 minutes to analyze the data. Competitive with Hadoop, probably not Spark.

Aaron won the World Championship!

# Daniel Henneberger

EngineeredBeer Uses plasmids, which is like a ring of DNA. When the cell multiplies and divides, the goal is to uptake the plasmid itself. To see if it was effective, you take an antibiotic gene, put it in an antibiotic agar solution? And make it work? Also Biosafety, because you don’t want that stuff in the wild.

Fluorescent gene (from a jellyfish) inserted into yeast to brew glow in the dark beer with genetically engineered yeast.

YPD agar
One yeast with an antibiotic, the other without, get them to multiply..?
If you weaken the cell wall with a chemical, it's more likely to uptake the new gene.
You can buy Salmon semen to help carry the plasmid into the cell.
Incubated it in his sock(!) at 86 degrees
Took 2-3 weeks to scale up the test tube amount of yeast into a beer-brewing batch.
Rigged a computer fan to spin the cell culture?!
Only the live yeast fluoresces!
DIY CRISPR Kit


# James Reichard

Euclidean Rhythms: An app to visualize rhythmic patterns

Code at: https://github.com/superbuggy/euclidean-rhythm-visualizer 

https://superbuggy.github.io/euclidean-rhythm-visualizer/

James buys a lot of synthesizers and noticed "euclidean sequences"

He knew about Euclid's relationship with geometry, but not music or rhythms

What is Euclidean rhythm and how is Euclid related to rhythm? There’s an algorithm called the bjorklid algorithm for coordinating the neutron acceleration systems. This very simple algo is paying out in multiple domains in surprisingly different ways. The application of the algo distributes a number of pulses as evenly as possible over a certain number of steps. Who cares?

This is a pretty boring rhythm. (1xxx1xxx)
Pulses 3 steps 8 is more interesting - compels you to move around more
So it turns out that this algo can describe almost all of known musical trads in world. *dominant rhythmic patterns) . More true of some musics than others. Don’t have an extensive ethnomusicological background. This is better at african continent rhythms than indian rhythms

Cuban tresillo rhythm - habanera rhythm 3 pulses over 8 steps. 
14 years ago, we discovered this algorithm that can explain musical traditions across the world

Pythagoras said the universe is disposed to numbers in relationships. Mind blown how this applies to music. A different combination of steps divided over numbers of pulses. Steps being the total number of sequences where each step is a different duration.
2 pulses over 5 steps - greece, namibia, rwanda and central africa. 
Anapest and bitroches? - poetic feet can be generated by this algorithm. This algo proves that.
Pulses 5 steps 8 is very interesting

How did you code up the algo? I didn’t - I started with something from project euler but I just wrote a mess. So I just grabbed the first one I saw (cited it from a gist). There‘s an actual library , this generates some weird things. You can rotate the sequence and it would be a pattern we’d experience in a different way. It’s arbitrary that we start on a rest on many results.

Pitches rIght around 20 hz is where things crossover from pitch to rhythm perception. Some book called “Memory and [something else]?” 


Music and Memory: https://mitpress.mit.edu/books/music-and-memory

# Jess Garson @jessicagarson

Messica Arson
DJ Set using tidal cycles
https://github.com/JessicaGarson/DJMessicaArson

Jess used to be a co-organizer of DC Hack and Tell, now she's doing live code DJing in NYC with a group called LiveCodeNYC!

Making music with code starting around a year ago. github.com/JessicaGarson/DJMessicaArson
People use SonicPi (album on github), and Tidal Cycles - code in Haskell. Now’s the time!

```haskell
--d1 $ sound “cp rm jazz rave:5”
--d2 $ sound “stab trump hh”
--d3 $ sound “house”
--d1 $ sound “cp hh crow tabla”
--d2 $ sound “stab ho hh”
--d3 $ sound “house*5 gabba *2”
d4 $ sound “rm jazz dialphone2:3”
--d2 $ sound “metal sid ho hh”
d1 $ sound “tabla bd [bd cp arpy]”
d2 $ sound “feel less”
hush
``

Syntax? There’s a bunch of premade sounds. There’s a way to build synths but I didn’t play with it. The general thing is that there’s a list of sounds. I wrote them all down so I could look at them. I DJ’d just by looking at my notebook and seeing what was available. `koy` is a guy who sounds like he’s meditating. You can go up to 9 sound channels (d1-9). They run simultaneously. It’s just using Haskell to make sounds that are repetitive rhythms. I just learned this 3 days ago!

Can you create your own premade sounds to put in there? I don’t really know (SonicPi definitely lets you). Jess would like to play non-coding events! 

Do you have to time it yourself? If you’re offbeat will it mess up? Yes, it just sounds really weird. It’s a lot easier to make stuff that sounds better faster with less code than with SonicPi.

Are these bindings to SuperCollider (clojure synth program thing)? Yes, both SonicPi and Tidal Cycles are just wrappers to SuperCollider.

Is there any way to export a sample if you found something you liked? Yeh, I think you’d just have to record it yourself.. The really cool thing about SnicPi is that it has it built in, but with Tidal Cycles you can use your own IDE.

Is SonicPi a different programming language? It’s a library for Ruby. This is a library for Haskell.

Is this related to MaxMSP? (Someone should start livecode DC!) There is a livecode movement? Emacs DJ (META-X!!!).

Installing it was pretty quick - the Atom Tidal Cycles package. Then I have this cool thing that just handles itl. Live updating and everything goes into TidalCycles. Less code. Better Music. 
